DTB Homework week3 (#20)
CharlesKimMaina/hyf-homework: databases/week3/homework3.txt

Use mealsharing;

CREATE TABLE `mealsharing`.`meal` (

>   `id` INT(10) NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,

Author: okey Flemming,.,i will do the corrections today, thanks

  `title` VARCHAR(45) NOT NULL,
  `description` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  `location` VARCHAR(255) NULL,
  `when` DATETIME NOT NULL,
  `Max_reservation` INT NULL,
  `price` DECIMAL(10,2) NULL,
  `created_date` DATE NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`));

CREATE TABLE `mealsharing`.`reservation` (
  `id` INT (10)NOT NULL,
  `number_of_guests` INT NOT NULL,
  `meal_id` INT NOT NULL,
  `created_date` DATE NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`));

CREATE TABLE `mealsharing`.`review` (
  `id` (10)INT NOT NULL,
  `title` VARCHAR(45) NOT NULL,
  `desciption` TEXT NOT NULL,
  `meal_id` INT NOT NULL,
  `stars` INT NULL,
  `created_date` DATE NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`));

ALTER TABLE `mealsharing`.`review` 

> CHANGE COLUMN `stars` `stars` INT NULL ;

Reviewer: You don't need to add this alter table statement. Just make sure all the create table statements are up-to-date before you commit the file to git

Use mealsharing;

CREATE TABLE `meal` (

>   `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY

Author: okey, Flemming,.i will do that now,.,.tak

>   `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY

Reviewer: Hi Charles. I've tried the CREATE TABLE statements again and there is still the same error. The error actually has nothing to do with the VARCHAR columns, even though it can look that way. It's perfectly fine to use VARCHAR(255) columns. The error is actually a syntax error because of a few missing things.

This is what's missing from the first line:
```suggestion
  `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
```
There are other errors as well. See if you can fix them all by using the technique i described earlier.

>   `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY

Author: Tak, Flemming,.,let me review them now,,.,

Use mealsharing;

> CREATE TABLE `meal` (
>   `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY
>   `title` VARCHAR(45) NOT NULL,
>   `description` VARCHAR(45) NOT NULL,
>   `location` VARCHAR(45) NULL,
>   `when` DATETIME NOT NULL,
>   `Max_reservation` INT NOT NULL,
>   `price` DECIMAL(10,2) NOT NULL,
>   `created_date` DATE NOT NULL 
> )ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8b4 COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
> 
> 
> 
> CREATE TABLE `reservation` (
>   `id` INT(10) UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY,
>   `number_of_guests` INT(10) NOT NULL,
>   `meal_id` INT NOT NULL,
>   `created_date` DATE NOT NULL,
> CONSTRAINT `fk_reservation` FOREIGN KEY (`meal_id`) REFERENCES `meal`(`id`) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
>   )ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8b4 COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
> 
> CREATE TABLE `review` (
>   `id` INT(10) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
>   `title` VARCHAR(45) NOT NULL,
>   `description` VARCHAR(45),
>   `meal_id` INT(10) unsigned NOT NULL,
>   `stars` INT(10) unsigned NOT NULL,
>   `created_date` DATE NOT NULL,
>   )CONSTRAINT `fk_reservation` FOREIGN KEY (`meal_id`) REFERENCES `meal`(`id`) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
>   )ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8b4 COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;

Reviewer: Here is what it should look like:

```suggestion
CREATE TABLE `meal` (
  `id` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
  `title` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  `description` TEXT NOT NULL,
  `location` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  `when` DATETIME NOT NULL,
  `max_reservation` INT NOT NULL,
  `price` DECIMAL(10,2) NOT NULL,
  `created_date` DATE NOT NULL 
) ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4 COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;

CREATE TABLE `reservation` (
  `id` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
  `number_of_guests` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
  `meal_id` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
  `created_date` DATE NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT `fk_reservation_meal` FOREIGN KEY (`meal_id`) REFERENCES `meal`(`id`) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
) ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4 COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;

CREATE TABLE `review` (
  `id` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
  `title` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  `description` TEXT NOT NULL,
  `meal_id` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
  `stars` INT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
  `created_date` DATE NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT `fk_review_meal` FOREIGN KEY (`meal_id`) REFERENCES `meal`(`id`) ON DELETE CASCADE ON UPDATE CASCADE
) ENGINE = InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4 COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
```
